In some of the earlier demos,
I showed how you can clean up volumes as you delete your containers.
So I want to reiterate and go through some examples of when you need to
do that and when you really don't need to do that.
So if you run a container,
and as you do that you actually add a volume to that container,
like we saw earlier, and you only specify one part to the volume,
as you see here, I just have /var/www, then in this case,
Docker is actually going to manage the volume
location where it reads and writes.
And so we're not specifying where our source code is or where to
write. We're going to let Docker figure that out.
All we're doing is saying that the container has a volume of var/www,
and then Docker is going to do the magic that actually creates
that folder and mounts it on the host machine.
Now, in those cases,
which definitely will be reality in some production or staging scenarios
where maybe you write log files or things like that,
then when that container goes away, if this Node container,
for instance, needs to stop and then be deleted,
we'll probably want to clean up that volume,
because otherwise, you kind of have some dangling files,
and it eats up some hard drive space.
And I mentioned this in some of the earlier demos, but just want to reiterate.
So, if you run docker inspect on your container,
I showed earlier that you can actually see the mounting location, and
you'll see the Source property in the Mounts property.
So you'll notice a nested object with Source and Destination.
Now, if you see that it's mounting it and that Docker is taking care of it,
and that means again you did ‑v with just one piece,
not two pieces, as you define the volume,
then when you're down to your last container,
you're going to want to remove this so you don't waste any hard drive space.
So, as I showed earlier in some of the demonstrations,
you can just simply say docker rm ‑v, and that will say,
in addition to removing the container using the volume,
let's also remove the Docker managed volume.
Now, as I showed in one of the demos,
if you do this and your volume has two parts,
you have the container volume name,
but it actually points to a folder you specify,
like your source code,
doing ‑ v is not going to delete like your source code.
It's going to leave it all there.
So this is really only needed when you specify a volume
and you let Docker manage the location on the host machine
of where that volume lives.
Now, if any other containers are using the volume,
you'd only want to run this when you're down to your last container using it.
And then it would go ahead and clean that up because
obviously some other containers, if they need it,
you don't want to get rid of it.
So that's a quick review on volumes and the need to clean those up in
cases where you delete a container and where you defined a volume that Docker actually manages on the host machine.